I. File Brands:

1. Page 1: (1, 2, 5):

1.It is a famous international brand.

2.Its image is very cool, fashionable, and often seen as top of the range.

5.I am quite loyal to Red Bull. When I need an energy drink, I will always choose it over a competitor's product.

2. Page 2: A,B:

A.

1.d
2.c
3.b
4.e
5.a
6.i
7.j
8.f
9.h
10.g

B.

1.The creation of Virgin Cola, Virgin Air, etc. is an example of brand stretching.

2.Consumers who always buy Levi's are showing brand loyalty.

3.Not enough people recognise our logo; we need to spend a lot more on raising brand awareness.

4.David Beckham advertising Vodafone is an example of product endorsement.

5.A product lifecycle consists of introduction, growth, maturity and decline.

6.The use of BMW cars and Nokia phones in James Bond films are examples of product placement.

3. Page 3: C, D:

C.

1.True
2.True
3.True
4.False
5.False
6.False
7.False
8.True

D.

The best summary is c): Asian consumers think that European luxury goods are of high quality. The current trend of making such goods in Asia could damage the reputation of these luxury brands.

4. Page 4: A,B,C:

A.

Present Simple: usually, often, every day, once a month

Present Continuous: currently, at the moment, now

Both: this year, nowadays, these days

B.

1.a) This year we are trying to develop a brand with personality. b) We usually develop brands that say something.


2.a) Powerful brand names create strong consumer loyalty. b) At the moment we are looking for a new brand name.


3.a) L'Oréal sells cosmetics and toiletries to consumers around the world. b) This year L'Oréal is investing over £180m in R & D.


4.a) The marketing department always keeps within its budget. b) Because the company made a loss last year, the marketing department is trying to reduce costs.

C.

At the moment I am working for a cosmetics company. We offer a full range of cosmetic products and sell cosmetics and toiletries around the world. Our main cosmetics brand dominates the French market and it is doing well in the rest of Europe at the moment, too. In fact, the brand is becoming more and more popular throughout the world and our market share is growing every day.
We usually develop and extend products under our existing brand name. The brand is distinctive and stands out from the competition. However, this year we are creating a completely new brand of cosmetics.

II. Video How to create a great brand name?:

What are the 3 essential steps when creating a successful brand?

1.Select the Name Type: Decide which of the seven name categories best fits your vision.

2.Define the Big Idea: The name must stand for a big, emotional idea, not just describe the product.

3.Check Availability: Ensure the name is not already taken and that it has no negative meaning in other languages.

What types of brand names are there? 

Eponymous: Named after the founder

Descriptive: Tells you exactly what the company does

Acronyms: Shorthand versions of descriptive names

Real Words: Dictionary words that suggest attributes

Composite: Created by gluing two words together

Invented: Unique words created for impact

Associative: Reflects imagery or meaning back to the brand

Provide your own example of a brand to each type:

Eponymous- Ford

Descriptive- General Motors

Acronyms- HP

Real Words- Puma

Composite- Snapchat

Invented- Xerox

Associative- Red Bull

